#  Node.js
## Set up
1. `sudo snap install heroku --classic`
2. you can use the heroku command from your terminal `heroku login`
3. check that you have the prerequisites installed properly. `node --version` , `npm --version` , `git --version` .
## Prepare the app
* To clone a local version of the sample application that you can then deploy to Heroku, execute the following commands in your local command shell or terminal
`git clone` + cd 
* it contains a simple application as well as a `package.json`
## Deploy the app
* Create an app on Heroku, which prepares Heroku to receive your source code. `heroku create`
* When you create an app, a git remote (called heroku) is also created and associated with your local git repository.
* Heroku generates a random name for your app, or you can pass a parameter to specify your own app name.
* Ensure that at least one instance of the app is running: `heroku ps:scale web=1`
*  visit the app at the URL generated by its app name `heroku open`
## View logs
View information about your running app using one of the logging commands, `heroku logs --tail:`
* Press Control+C to stop streaming the logs.

## Define a Procfile
, a text file in the root directory of your application, to explicitly declare what command should be executed to start your app.
## Scale the app
 dyno is a lightweight container that runs the command specified in the Procfile
* You can check how many dynos are running using the ps command:`heroku ps`
* By default, your app is deployed on a free dyno. 
* Free dynos will sleep after a half hour of inactivity (if they don’t receive any traffic). 
* This causes a delay of a few seconds for the first request upon waking.
* Subsequent requests will perform normally. 
* To avoid dyno sleeping, you can upgrade to a hobby or professional dyno type as described .
## Declare app dependencies
Heroku recognizes an app as Node.js by the existence of a package.json file in the root directory. For your own apps, you can create one by running `npm init --yes`.
* The package.json file determines both the version of Node.js that will be used to run your application on Heroku, as well as the dependencies that should be installed with your application.`npm install`
## Run the app locally
* Now start your application locally using the heroku local command, which was installed as part of the Heroku CLI: `heroku local web`
## Push local changes
* In this step you’ll learn how to propagate a local change to the application through to Heroku. 
`npm install cool-ascii-faces` , `npm install`
,`heroku local`, 
## Provision add-ons
Add-ons are third-party cloud services that provide out-of-the-box additional services for your application, from persistence through logging to monitoring and more.

* By default, Heroku stores 1500 lines of logs from your application. However, it makes the full log stream available as a service - and several add-on providers have written logging services that provide things such as log persistence, search, and email and SMS alerts.
## Start a console
* To get a real feel for how dynos work, you can create another one-off dyno and run the bash command, which opens up a shell on that dyno.
## Define config vars
* Heroku lets you externalize configuration - storing data such as encryption keys or external resource addresses in config vars.
* At the end of the file, add the following definition for the new function, showTimes():
## Provision a database
* The add-on marketplace has a large number of data stores, from Redis and MongoDB providers, to Postgres and MySQL. 

